# flashe6b
An E6B slide rule written in Adobe Flex. I got the idea for this while browsing Breitling watches and wondering what exactly the numbers on the bezel were for.

<p><h3>How to Use</h3></p><br>
					<p>The slide rule is comprised of two wheels, the inner and outer scales.  Each scale is numbered logarithmically, which means the distance between numbers decreases as you go clockwise around the scale.  Numbers on the scales can be of any order of magnitude you wish.  35 on the scale can represent 0.35, 3.5, 35, 350, and so on.  Be aware that as you increase the magnitude, precision will be lost.  10 on the inner scale is also known as the Unit Index.  The marker for 60 is the Hour Index.  To rotate the outer scale, click anywhere on the slide rule and drag your mouse to the position you want. </p>
					<p>There is a box to the right with two tabs, “Basic Functions” and “Aviation Functions” which have fields that can be filled in to demonstrate how the slide rule should be used.  When a function’s fields are filled in, the outer scale will be rotated to the correct position and a red dot will be drawn to display where the result/operands are.  For “Basic Functions”, only the operands need to be filled in.  The answer will be calculated automatically.  For “Aviation Functions”, any two of the fields can be filled in.  The third field will be locked and calculated automatically.  To edit two different fields, press the “Reset Fields” button above the function.</p>
					<p><b>Conversion</b>: Slide rules are useful for conversions, such as pounds to kilograms or US Dollars to British Pounds.  For example, £1 is equal to $1.50, so enter 1.5 into the second input for “Conversion Factor” and the outer scale will be rotated automatically.  Every number on the inner scale can now be easy converted to US dollars in the outer scale.</p>
					<p><b>Multiplication</b>: For this example, we will calculate 5 X 7.  First, rotate the outer scale until 5 is aligned with the unit index on the inner scale.  Now look for 7 on the inner scale and you will see that it is aligned with the answer of 35.  Alternatively, you can use type 5 and 7 into the fields in the “Basic Functions” box to automatically perform this calculation.  The scales will be aligned automatically and a red dot will be placed between 7 and 35 to show the answer.</p>
					<p><b>Division</b>: For this example, we will calculate 90 % 45.  Align the outer scale’s 90 with the inner scale’s 45.  The answer, 2, will be aligned with unit index.</p>
					<p>Aviation functions work a bit differently.  Enter a number for any two of the three fields, and the third will be locked and display your answer.  From here on you can change any of the two inputs with different numbers and your answer will change dynamically.  If you want to solve for a different field, press the Reset button.</p>
					<p><b>Ground Speed</b>: Let's suppose we have traveled 50 miles in 12 minutes in the air and want to find our ground speed.  Rotate the outer scale so that 12 on the inner aligns with 50 on the outer (red dot).  Now look at the hour index and you will see that we have a ground speed of 250mph.</p>
					<p><b>Fuel Consumption</b>: Now we have been flying for 15 minutes in the air and noticed that we have used up 650 gallons of fuel (we're in a massive 747) and want to know our fuel consumption rate.  Align the inner scale's 15 with the outer scale's 650 (red dot), and you will find your answer at the hour index, 2600 gallons per hour.</p>
					<p><b>Rate of Ascent/Descent</b>: For those 15 minutes, we have ascended to a height of 14,250 ft.  To find our rate of ascent, rotate the outer scale so 14250 (or 14.2) is opposite the inner scale's 15 (red dot).  The rate of ascent, 950 ft/minute will be lined up with the unit index.</p>
		
